Now that you know how to load and
save data in Octave,
put your data into matrices and so on.
In this video, I'd like to show you how
to do computational operations on data.
And later on, we'll be using these source
of computational operations to implement
our learning algorithms.
Let's get started.
Here's my Octave window.
Let me just quickly initialize some
variables to use for our example.
So set A to be a three by two matrix,
and set B to a three by two matrix,
and let's set C to a two
by two matrix like so.
Now let's say I want to
multiply two of my matrices.
So let's say I want to compute A*C, I just
type A*C, so it's a three by two matrix
times a two by two matrix,
this gives me this three by two matrix.
You can also do element wise operations
and do A.* B and what this will do is
it'll take each element of A and multiply
it by the corresponding elements B,
so that's A, that's B, that's A .* B.
So for example, the first element
gives 1 times 11, which gives 11.
The second element gives 2 time
12 Which gives 24, and so on.
So this is element-wise
multiplication of two matrices.
And in general, the period tends to,
is usually used to denote
element-wise operations in Octave.
So here's a matrix A, and if I do A .^ 2,
this gives me the element
wise squaring of A.
So 1 squared is 1,
2 squared is 4, and so on.
Let's set v as a vector.
Let's set v as one, two,
three as a column vector.
You can also do one dot over v to do
the element-wise reciprocal of v,
so this gives me one over one, one over
two, and one over three, and this is where
I do the matrices, so one dot over
a gives me the element wise inverse of a.
And once again, the period here gives us a
clue that this an element-wise operation.
We can also do things like log(v),
this is a element-wise logarithm of the v
E to the V is base E
exponentiation of these elements,
so this is E, this is E squared EQ,
because this was V, and
I can also do abs V to take
the element-wise absolute value of V.
So here, V was our positive,
abs, minus one, two minus 3,
the element-wise absolute value gives
me back these non-negative values.
And negative v gives me the minus of v.
This is the same as negative one times v,
but
usually you just write
negative v instead of -1*v.
And what else can you do?
Here's another neat trick.
So, let's see.
Let's say I want to take v an increment
each of its elements by one.
Well one way to do it is
by constructing a three
by one vector that's all ones and
adding that to v.
So if I do that, this increments
v by from 1, 2, 3 to 2, 3, 4.
The way I did that was, length(v) is 3,
so ones(length(v),1),
this is ones of 3 by 1, so
that's ones(3,1) on the right and
what I did was v plus ones v by one,
which is adding this vector of our ones
to v, and so this increments v by one,
and another simpler way to do
that is to type v plus one.
So she has v, and
v plus one also means to add one element
wise to each of my elements of v.
Now, let's talk about more operations.
So here's my matrix A, if you want to
buy A transposed, the way to do that
is to write A prime, that's the apostrophe
symbol, it's the left quote,
so it's on your keyboard,
you have a left quote and a right quote.
So this is actually
the standard quotation mark.
Just type A transpose, this gives
me the transpose of my matrix A.
And, of course, A transpose,
if I transpose that again,
then I should get back my matrix A.
Some more useful functions.
Let's say lower case a is 1 15 2 0.5,
so it's 1 by 4 matrix.
Let's say val equals max of A this
returns the maximum value of
A which in this case is 15 and
I can do val,
ind max(a) and this returns val and ind
which are going to be the maximum value
of A which is 15, as well as the index.
So it was the element number two of A that
was 15 so ind is my index into this.
Just as a warning, if you do max(A),
where A is a matrix,
what this does is this actually
does the column wise maximum.
But say a little more
about this in a second.
Still using this example that there for
lowercase a.
If I do a < 3,
this does the element wise operation.
Element wise comparison, so the first
element of A is less than three so
this one.
Second element of A is not less than three
so this value says zero cuz it's false.
The third and fourth elements of
A are less than three, so that's just 1 1.
So that's the element-wise comparison of
all four elements of the variable a < 3.
And it returns true or false depending on
whether or not there's less than three.
Now, if I do find(a < 3), this will
tell me which are the elements of a,
the variable a, that are less than 3,
and in this case, the first, third and
fourth elements are less than 3.
For our next example,
let me set a to be equal to magic(3).
The magic function returns,
let's type help magic.
The magic function returns these
matrices called magic squares.
They have this, you know, mathematical
property that all of their rows and
columns and
diagonals sum up to the same thing.
So, you know, it's not actually useful for
machine learning as far as I know, but
I'm just using this as a convenient way
to generate a three by three matrix.
And these magic squares have
the property that each row, each column,
and the diagonals all add
up to the same thing, so
it's kind of a mathematical construct.
I use this magic function only when I'm
doing demos or when I'm teaching octave
like those in, I don't actually use it for
any useful machine learning application.
But let's see,
if I type RC = find(A > 7) this finds
All the elements of A that
are greater than equal to seven,
and so r, c stands for row and column.
So the 1,1 element is greater than 7,
the 3,2 element is greater than 7, and
the 2,3 element is greater than 7.
So let's see.
The 2,3 element, for example, is A(2,3),
is 7 is this element out here, and
that is indeed greater than equal seven.
By the way, I actually don't even memorize
myself what these find functions do and
what all of these things do myself.
And whenever I use the find function,
sometimes I forget myself exactly what it
does, and now I would type help
find to look at the document.
Okay, just two more things
that I'll quickly show you.
One is the sum function, so
here's my a, and then type sum(a).
This adds up all the elements of a, and
if I want to multiply them together,
I type prod(a) prod sends the product, and
this returns the product of
these four elements of A.
Floor(a) rounds down these elements of A,
so 0.5 gets rounded down to 0.
And ceil, or ceiling(A) gets
rounded up to the nearest integer,
so 0.5 gets rounded up to 1.
You can also, let's see.
Let me type rand(3),
this generates a three by three matrix.
If i type max(rand(3),
what this does is it takes
the element-wise maximum of
3 random 3 by 3 matrices.
So you notice all of these numbers tend
to be a bit on the large side because
each of these is actually
the max of a element
wise max of two randomly
generated matrices.
This is my magic number.
This is my magic square, three by three A.
Let's say I type max A, and
then this will be a [],
1, what this does is this
texts the column wise maximum.
So the max of the first column is 8,
max of second column is 9,
the max of the third column is 7.
This 1 means to take the max
among the first dimension of 8.
In contrast, if I were to type max A,
this funny notation,
two, then this takes the per row maximum.
So the max of the first row is eight, max
of second row is seven, max of the third
row is nine, and so this allows you to
take maxes either per row or per column.
And remember the default's
to a column wise element.
So if you want to find the maximum
element in the entire matrix A,
you can type max(max(A)) like so,
which is 9.
Or you can turn A into a vector and
type max(A(:)) like so and
this treats this as a vector and
takes the max element of that vector.
Finally let's set A to be
a 9 by 9 magic square.
So remember the magic square has
this property that every column and
every row sums the same thing,
and also the diagonals, so
just a nine by nine matrix square.
So let me just sum(A, 1).
So this does a per column sum, so
we'll take each column of A and
add them up and
this is verified that indeed for
a nine by nine matrix square, every column
adds up to 369, adds up to the same thing.
Now let's do the row wide sum.
So the sum(A,2), and
this sums up each row of A, and
indeed each row of A also sums up to 369.
Now, let's sum the diagonal
elements of A and
make sure that also sums
up to the same thing.
So what I'm gonna do is construct a nine
by nine identity matrix, that's eye nine.
And let me take A and construct, multiply
A element wise, so here's my matrix A.
I'm going to do A .^ eye(9).
What this will do is take the element wise
product of these two matrices, and so
this should Wipe out everything in A,
except for the diagonal entries.
And now,
I'm gonna do sum sum of A of that and
this gives me the sum of these diagonal
elements, and indeed that is 369.
You can sum up the other
diagonals as well.
So this top left to bottom left,
you can sum up the opposite diagonal
from bottom left to top right.
The commands for
this is somewhat more cryptic,
you don't really need to know this.
I'm just showing you this in
case any of you are curious.
But let's see.
Flipud stands for flip up down.
But if you do that, that turns out to
sum up the elements in the opposite.
So the other diagram,
that also sums up to 369.
Here, let me show you.
Whereas eye(9) is this matrix.
Flipup(eye(9)), takes the identity matrix,
and flips it vertically, so
you end up with, excuse me,
flip UD, end up with ones on
this opposite diagonal as well.
Just one last command and then that's it,
and then that'll be it for this video.
Let's set A to be the three
by three magic square game.
If you want to invert a matrix,
you type pinv(A).
This is typically called
the pseudo-inverse, but it does matter.
Just think of it as basically the inverse
of A, and that's the inverse of A.
And so I can set temp = pinv(A) and
temp times A,
this is indeed the identity matrix, where
it's essentially ones on the diagonals,
and zeroes on the off-diagonals,
up to a numeric round off.
So, that's it for
how to do different computational
operations on data and matrices.
And after running a learning algorithm,
often one of the most useful things is to
be able to look at your results, so
to plot or visualize your result.
And in the next video, I'm going to very
quickly show you how again with one or
two lines of code using Octave.
You can quickly visualize your data or
plot your data and
use that to better understand what
you're learning algorithms are doing.